okay we're back
live that's one heck of a parito front
right there my gosh 26 seconds solve
glorious truly
glorious we have this algorithm well set
um I going to sit here for a second
while the stream warms
up get my supplements
and then I'll chat about what we're
going to build tonight welcome
AI I've been trying this blueprint stack
for the last I don't know few weeks I
haven't been perfectly consistent taking
it but it's been decent overall
dude you gota you got to up the quality
of stuff you're posting on uh on X like
you have some reasonable stuff but also
you kind of just Spam bot stuff at
times no I don't all
right I get your Tweet
notifications what are you trying to be
the next yapan
yeah look my best posts are stupid
comments as well but the thing is they
don't actually
convert I have stuff that's gotten like
a thousand some
OD where I just like I made some like
dumb code
joke Puff is incredible my friend thank
you very
much so um we have new stuff for you in
puffer lib as well what you're looking
at right here is I haven't run the
baselines fully yet but most likely soda
hyper parameter sweeps for RL by a
massive
takes about two hours to
run what like two billion steps a
pong maybe it was about a week fulltime
a week's worth of fulltime work for me
yeah I mean this here this is a parito
curve on pong so you'll notice that it
doesn't have any expensive runs that
give you bad results you'll notice it
doesn't spend too much time on overly
expensive runs that aren't really giving
you much performance benefit because
it's already solved over here and you'll
notice as well that we have uh this is
solved in 26.5
seconds so pretty
good we're very happy with this
so um what I want to do
tonight and I'm not going to go too
crazy on this if it ends up being harder
than expected but a few folks in
Industry have asked me for this um and
you know it would be nice to get uh a
couple more contracts going with puffer
puffer is a business as well you know we
need to be able to pay for the
gpus so uh we do that through service
contracts and one of the things people
have been asking about is
distributed so I've always stayed away
from this
because God it's a
mess and your
time what
I wonder if I could put this as an
option just in the demo. P script and
not have to pollute the clean puff
RL do you think
uh the thing is that they have a data
parallel but they don't like it
explain data parallel you take your
batch of 4096 OBS you have four gpus you
give each GPU 1024 OBS and you run them
in
parallel uh it would if they'd
implemented it correctly but they didn't
so they kind of punted on it and say
yeah never use this even though would
exist and use this distributed data
parallel
instead I mean nothing's going to happen
with me just staring at it so I may as
well just try to [ __ ] with it and see
what
happens that guy says Ray something
something no bad
machines this is just if we can get
multi GPU on one machine that'll be a
good
start yep wouldn't it be nice if that
were
simple unfortunately we cannot have nice
things with these
people it isn't no and if I wanted to
actually build that to be simple and be
good it would take me quite a while so
we're going to wrap this thingy for now
and see if it's any
good is it common to have 10 gpus no
it's common to have 4 to8
consumer mother yeah no they're not for
that they're for
serers basically industry wants to know
if you can spend um 50 times the money
to make it five times faster
MH well to be fair we could probably
make it five times faster for like five
to six times the cost uh if we got a
tiny box on this
thing
hopefully it would only be ratio one for
larger models so it's not going to give
us 6 million steps per second I would
doubt but uh you know it might keep us
at good uh SPS relative if we're going
to do 10 million parameter
models I don't know I figured I'd take
an hour or two and do it since people
have asked and it would be a cool thing
to show off if we get it to work quickly
bandwidth no bandwidth is still an issue
because the models are so small we
process over like a gigabyte of data per
okay you go ahead and time it and see
why uh where the bottlenecks are in our
RL processes go ahead speed up our
trainer get us to five or 10 million
steps per second then
if you can like if you can double our
training speed uh I don't know I'll send
you a box or
do we just run this whole bloody process
in
there but if we just put this
hopefully you can import them like this
I think you should be able to
looking around ironically most RL
because memory usage is essentially
zero less than 150 gigabytes per
second single
pcie mm speeds are more than fast enough
to handle the data still
okay
so where's the overhead from then just
Cuda kernel
launch compiling does not magically make
all of our stuff Run 100 times faster as
far as we've
seen we've got pretty small networks
we've got like hundred some odd thousand
parameter
networks uh and then they run at up to a
million steps per second in training
also less than 150 GB per second who the
hell is doing 150 gbes a second of
transfer I guess for the the weight
transfer but that's like one giant
tensor it' be faster with more gpus I
don't know what's the
we're running like 200 batches a second
I believe or
more it's essentially zero well then
what's the bottleneck because we see we
see uh slowdown when we go over a
gigabyte a
second
um like you'd have to profile the train
script and figure it out from there
with what setup like
Hardware top end desktop with a 4090 and
a high-end CPU
950x it's not CPU bound at
all I mean if you think about it though
here's the thing we have a batch size of
4096 in the forward pass right okay so a
million per second you're doing like
over 200 batches uh you're doing over
200 batches per
second okay so like you literally like
millisecond like millisecond overhead in
like launch times and stuff is going to
kill perf
I wouldn't say it's dying but we've
noticed our Nets are substan
slower with uh when we substantially
exceed a gond
yeah yeah ddr4 or ddr5 either
way I mean you could it could be the net
it could just be that we're genuinely
Network bound at this point I haven't
done the math I would need to know
like it would be difficult I'd have to
compute the like flop uh throughput or
whatever
well we've noticed substantial bandwidth
overhead I don't know the thing is you
also end up copying
it that might be with memory
pinned you you end up still needing to
copy it I don't
just silly
support I don't even know what this is
that somebody just really wants to write
ends in like Julia or something I don't
know okay let's see if the runs or just
freezes
so uh I guess DDP is just uh lags or
fails or
something if I do World size one does
that do anything
the
heck why should this thing
hang oh actually maybe we should check
if it's actually doing
so memory went up but GPU utilization is
still very very
low 15% if I kill
it yeah it's just a me so it all the
policy
oh you know what I wonder if it's torch
Cuda synchronize
no that's crazy I would have thought
that would have been it
I mean this gets to somewhere how do we
see where it gets to
do we have to freaking print debug here
is this a
D where's this freaking dashboard I
swear
huh well that's not particularly useful
now is it
mark okay so for some reason it thinks
the policy is not recurrent
hell how the hell is this stupid
thing oh it's cuz stupid
me
okay man I honestly I thought we were
done with
MPI I thought we' gotten over this era
of stupidity but apparently not
oops and I also realized this is
covering
maybe I might need to up my freaking
coffee dosage
uh talking up the on some stuff I don't
even freaking know man
yeah I I don't think he knows what he
means C well Captain's not
at so this the default thing it trains
at
580k 5 80ish
H now this does not
work go back to
two still does not work did I have
something wrong
two no so it only runs at one so
assumably that's multiple
devices
okay so uh I keep having to answer stuff
on the side
and why is
it why are the first two links tutorials
instead of just docks it really that
on example I don't want example I want
the freaking docks where's the
docks docs distributed data parallel and
there is no freaking function
signature what is wrong with you
here it is here are the real docs
okay device
spawn so I guess World size is just
multiple devices
nccl is the fastest back
end
okay so the tutorial gave me the slow
back end
okay so there's very little overhead
there if any at all compared to single
is there a way that I can test this
without multiple gpus
probably is but it's hard and doesn't
work I I could just go get a multi GPU
machine for
testing should I just do that real
quick going do
that what's like a really easy way to do
that what's like a really easy way to
just like get
a a uh multi-gpu machine for a couple
hours I don't have any mine are all
single GPU
I mean you don't think it would be
really easy there's so many freaking
companies devoted to this that they
literally have like Renta trucks
advertising GPU rental services driving
around
yes but I mean it's going to be a few
hours it'll be like 10 20 bucks whatever
there that will do
it I could try vast as well but I think
those are personal machines right
right they don't have
machines I I don't think that they have
I mean multi-gpu machines
renting machine should not be hard oh
yeah here this is 4 490s
there all
right let me Commit This
you are 100%
confident
no you can test it we have the automated
tests so if you commit it and it passes
the the build tests then it probably
works it should do those for anything
you anything you PR I'm pretty sure it
should run the the tests
or you can just copy the file and put it
in your
fork I'm not confident of anything
here let's do this on the puffer oneops
that's crazy that they don't have a
login button on their main page there we
go and with
Google do
question
mark where it just go where did it just
go oh it just made me an account it gave
me a sign up page and then it just made
me an account off Google
whatever
okay check your email for
hang
on let me make sure I can actually get
these machines
put 10 bucks on it real
quick that was nice and
uh where's that machine I
wanted did somebody grab it already
come
right
this H2 200s what are those
this is view the instances page in the
sidebar in the sidebar
huh what are you actually doing that guy
wants to
know what am I doing right now I'm just
trying to see if I can test distributed
data parallel with p with uh with Puffer
access open Jupiter
terminal for
cool can you get SSH to this
thing probably not you probably have to
set up stuff it's no big deal for now uh
let's go grab Docker I
guess or actually do I even need Docker
I probably don't if this thing has pie
torch on it right
y'all got to get some better
containers no
GCC your container should not be so
minified that I have to manually install
a
so whoever said that uh renting GPU
machines is difficult
I actually don't know why people rent
these things out to be
honest for the prices that they rent
them this is why I own the hardware
because it's like there's no way you can
get these things consistently enough
I mean a140 a day they're making what
th000 bucks a year a little
more yeah I mean you're hardly making
anything on them though like the whole
point of owning your own Hardware is you
have it for yourself on demand when you
want it
I think that's all I need for uh for
this
huh their gpus are somehow did they over
underclock the hell out of
guys these guys are scamming
you look at
that I don't know how you fix
the the
theme can you do no that's
syntax there we
go I think they scam you look I think
that they have them way under clocked so
that they don't spend anything on power
rank zero and rank one both on cuded
device
got two
rank I
that's kind of
cool I didn't expect that to
so that's like 4X faster training you're
not going to see it here but the way
that you can tell is that this stays the
same so this doesn't drop very much
there's very low overhead but you can
see it ticks a whole bunch of updates
really quick it's cuz it's actually
doing four updates every
time so that's cool
bad don't let me forget to close this
tonight but we're going to do a little
Dev over
distributed
um the guide's just following the torch
instructions I was just going to merge
it do you want what do you want a guide
for something I mean I I don't know
maybe it's a good article for x or
something
just a demo. p it's a little more than
that but not much
this little bit of code this little bit
of code added a
flag I the only thing is that the thing
is uh all the dashboard just updates in
place so it just it updates four times
in place and the stats going to W be
won't be
I guess we try something like this we
get this working and then we uh we try
to Port it
back oh it's nine already though isn't
it
the thing is I feel good at the moment
and I could keep going on
this I'll do just a little more on this
I don't want to be up too too late but
I'll do just a little more on
dude I've done my time all right my
average bedtime in high school was like
2 3 in the
morning and I lived an hour
stupid work does not require any sleep
because you can be stupid and still get
it done smart work requires you to be
well
rested also it's just a lot less
miserable in general like there's
basically no enjoyment to be had in life
if you have chronic sleep deprivation
it's like actually a form of torture
exaggeration okay so there's this mean
and log operation
I hear somebody trying to do DDP
somebody's done DDP it just requires uh
some logging changes so that actually
make
sense and honest honestly why am I being
stupid about this as well I should just
do um actually I leave it as is damn
it add log by rank in
front what do you
mean log by rank
that's not what I want I don't want a
log per rank I want to take the uh I
want a summer me
expensive well too bad if it can't do it
once per Epoch then what the hell if it
can't like reduce a few
oral I mean I can combine them into one
all reduce
later I just want it to work for
block now what we're going to do a
block okay screw
you de
did your test check for the garbage
compile
Flags no
idea using torch Runner writing this out
by
hand what do you mean writing it out by
hand is it so difficult to add like 10
lines of code
annoying just
do yes
this what do we do to check the
rank check the
rank this.g rank is zero
get rank not equal zero
turn
better let's torch run
anyways I don't want things that take
over my bloody command line and require
me to have a launch command that's not
running the language that I'm coding
one day you too shall find the complete
Zen
is writing your code not depending on
silly
command from pie I don't want anything
taking over my command
line I don't want
it everybody makes one of these bloody
things
it's like no stop it give me anit
function I can call from my language
that I'm coding
in and also stop taking away control
over execution from me stop it
initialized please make sure to call a
net process
group the hell does that mean I didn't
think I had to do that
[ __ ] you can call the Run function
directly does it do anything then
because the tutorial is pretty succinct
huh oh this is the same this is the
garbage
right dude it's just this is [ __ ]
engineering is all that this is I'm
surprised that so many places are
actually using this the places not just
made their own
distributed I mean literally people were
doing like I mean people have been doing
MPI style stuff for how
long unironically Ray got the for all
the things that Ray screwed up they got
the distributed API dead current like
dead on that's what they did
well and behold you just run functions
and then you run a loop and check when
they're ready
well the comp the computation Paradigm
is totally different you're right is
probably a rapper well no actually they
like their the way their servers are set
up is quite different um their parameter
servers and
stuff it's probably not great for small
models though
framework yeah just having remote
classes yeah it's very
nice I uh I gave them the input on how
to design their debugger that's a fun
fact they came to me with like this
absolutely like insane deranged remote
debugger setup and I was like all right
here this is pdb make it work remotely
on your
system and they went they did that so
that was kind of cool
I like how it checks off its solution
without actually running its own
missing why can't I copy C until it's
done typing that's
silly oopsy whoopsie we forgot to spawn
oh there it is okay spawn Main
and then you have to set
rank so anyways you're supposed to call
a nit process
group I do that right don't I have this
or do you have to call a nit process
group
separately nit process yeah I do that
here it is and I just forgot set device
oh you know what I'm not running it with
GTP so it's probably complaining that I
can't check
enabled is there a way to check if dist
isn't is an
is
initialized
perfect that's that's available not
boom today has been a very funny stream
day in that it's been fairly active the
whole day hello twitch folks this is uh
current Curr attempting to add
distributed support to puffer
lib so people can train on their many
gpus that they have and we can have our
single GPU machines because they cost
less dist all reduce aha this is what
happens when you forget to copy and
paste your copy of pastable code
loopy well we test this for anyone who
might be new
here puffer lib is an ultra high
performance and very simple to use
reinforcement learning library we train
it a million steps per second on one GPU
you can check it out on
puff. we've got tons of
demos AEM tons of demos which presumably
are not loading because my GP was busy
or something ridiculous yep literally
that's what it was that was
weird yeah there you go tons of
different RL environments you can check
them out here they're all open source
they're all ridiculously fast like
10,000 times real time they range from
very simple to very
complex star the code to help us out
really helps us when people start the
GitHub it's one of the main things we
track you can join the Discord right
here discord.gg puffer you can also
follow me on X for more RL content we've
got a Blog here as well back to
code okay so this now
runs uh apparently I killed the machine
so we'll do
ddb
DDP this could be a
call to
dism it could
be that'd be too smart though wouldn't
it
uh no it can't
because the
initialized you forgot
logging so calls is
initialized yeah and then what'll happen
is you'll get this value right and then
it'll try to get the world size and
they'll say it's not
initialized but
process group has not been
destroyed how do you destroy the process
group just destroy process group lovely
okay so uh I guess what we do is we push
this
and we tried this on our rented poty
machine which is actually a very nice
machine that I think has been
underclocked to become a poverty machine
because it is about the same speed no
it's about a third of the speed per card
as my local desktop
okay get these w b
credentials wrong window
box seven is down again what do you keep
doing to box seven my guy what do you
keep doing do
it I have to put Ram limits on these
things you guys just oh like out of
memory them
constantly cuz Spencer said it turns out
he was just out of memory his box
constantly I did plug in a
monitor I actually plugged in a monitor
for the next time that it went down so
if I go out there it's probably up oops
if I go out there that's it's just a WB
key nothing
crazy uh if I do go out there I should
get
something cuz I out of memory
sporadically so you are taking the box
down damn it
well we will get uh some logs hopefully
if the monitor
Works put Ram limits y the no I think
one box has auntu most of them have
Debian we're going to move to auntu
though because I'm sick of dealing with
Debian I thought it would be more stable
it's not it's kind of
[ __ ] I thought I was being clever like
I'm going to put Debian on him instead
of buntu cuz I'm a smart guy
and it's just like no you're stupid what
are you
doing stop doing
that not logging interesting enough
enough okay we do get system logs but
that's
integrated I got that thing uh I gave
linky the PRM integrate that quick
it's a public Channel what are you
talking about
something there are very few public
channels
how do you not have access to that
channel it's [ __ ] public
oh
oops my
bad I'm stupid my
that's where you guys were no they
aren't private it's just
there
hey it works
seen uh at the moment I think we don't
have anything private on here I like
I've locked like the old support channel
so people don't post in it by
mistake we might do some private
channels in the future for like
customers and stuff but I've avoided it
just because I'll like accidentally leak
those all the time right because I'll
just have Discord open on stream
Debian they should be a bun to but
they're
not I mean this
that being unsafe no it's just uh it's
annoying because it doesn't have drivers
for new
gpus and that's that's just a standard
out of memory there's nothing special
about the
OS cool so this
nice okay
well I got some cool emails to send to
people it's going to take a little bit
more work but I'm you know I'm happy
that doesn't that look pretty easy uh we
are going to kill this fast instance
before I forget
be yeah no we're just going to get rid
of
this CU I'll forget otherwise
cool
[Music]
um that's pretty nice for uh just a
couple hours of work in the evening
right preliminary multi-gpu I mean the
thing is we're not going to use it a ton
for what we do cuz we do uh mostly
single GPU stuff but hey it's nice to
know that maybe we can get a tiny box
and maybe we can like you know do some
larger stuff on it if we want um and hey
it'll be really nice for industry folks
cuz a couple of people people have asked
me in industry and uh I guess it's a
good time to say this is a company as
well it's all free and open source stuff
we don't sell the software we just sell
service it's Service as a service not
software as a service so if you're in an
RL company or company that needs some RL
check that out but uh for the most part
all software here start on GitHub to
support really helps us out I work on
this full time and uh you can check out
our environments right on the website
we've got a nice blog join the Discord
and follow on X I will be back tomorrow
streaming more Dev probably first thing
in the morning as usual uh I'm going to
be working on a combination of
hyperparameter sweeps and a few other
things speaking of which I would like to
at least run one experiment overnight so
let's just set that up
my score the protein sweep
Auto 1
E9 really should not need 1
E9 6
e
8 do like
188 we'll see what this
does
breakout
sweep mode
breakout uh sweep Neptune and then tag
I forgot my API token let's get
that and this will just be some
experiments to run uh overnight and
we'll see how those
go this is just all testing for the new
algorithm that I'm going to be shipping
as soon as tests are done
cool so hopefully this doesn't break on
us we will see uh I don't know I'll
check it after I go brush my teeth and
stuff thank you for tuning in it's been
a fun stream day had lots of cool
conversations on stream and fair few